Navigating the File System 
  1.pwd  -  (Print Working Directory): Displays the current directory. 
  2.ls   -   (List): Lists files and directories in the current directory. 
  3.cd   - (cd /path/to/directory): Change Directory, Navigate to a different directory. 
  4. .    - (Current Directory): Represents the current directory. 
  5. ..   -   (Parent Directory): Represents the parent directory.

File and Directory Operations 
  1.touch  - (touch filename): Create an empty file. 
  2.mkdir  - (mkdir directoryname): Make Directory, Create a new directory. 
  3.rm  - (rm filename): Remove, Delete files and directories.
  4.rm -r   (rm -r directoryname): Remove a directory and its contents.
  5.cp   - (cp source destination): Copy files or directories.
  6.mv (mv oldfilename newfilename): Move or rename files or directories. 
  7.grep (grep "fedora server" /desktop/fedora_file.txt): used to search for a pattern in a
    file. 

Viewing and Editing Files
  1.cat (cat filename): Display the contents of a file.
  2.more or less - (more filename or less filename): Paginate through file content.
  3.nano or vim (nano filename or vim filename): Text editors for creating and editing
    files.
  4.head and tail - (head filename or tail filename): Display the beginning or end of a file. 

System Information 
  1.uname (uname -a): Display system information. 
  2.df (df -h): Show disk space usage.
  3.free (free -h): Display memory usage. 

Process Management 
  1.ps (ps aux): Process status, List running processes. 
  2. kill (kill PID): Terminate processes by their process ID (PID). 


User and Permission Management 
  1.who: Display who is logged in. 
  2.Chmod (chmod permissions filename): Change file permissions. 
  3.chown (chown user:group filename): Change file ownership. 
  4.sudo: Use the sudo command to run commands as the root user. This is necessary for
    performing many administrative tasks. 

Update the System
  #sudo dnf update

Set up a root password
  #sudo passwd root

Create a Regular User 
  #sudo useradd -m username
  #sudo passwd username
  #sudo usermod -aG wheel username

Switch Account
  #su username 


Configure Firewall
  # sudo systemctl enable firewalld #enable the firewall
  # sudo systemctl start firewalld #start the firewall
  # sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-service=ssh #allow SSH traffic
  # sudo firewall-cmd –reload #make the changes permanent

Hostname Configuration
   # sudo hostnamectl set-hostname newhostname - sets a new hostname (computer name)

Install Apache Server
  #sudo dnf install httpd













